.Introduction 1
.	A Historical Timeline of Developmental Biology 1
.		The Science of How Organisms Form 1
.		First Theories: Epigenesis, Preformation and Spontaneous Generation 1
.		The Rise of Experimental Embryology 1
.		Developmental Genetics 1
.		Molecular Genetics 1
.		Cell Biomechanics 1
.	Integrating Developmental Mechanics and Genetics: The MECAGEN Project 1
.	Methodological Considerations 1
.		The Scientist in the Observation-Hypothesis-Experiment Loop 1
.		Designing Tools to Perceive, Conceive and Manipulate 1
.		Reality Check: Validating the Hypotheses 1
.	Overview of this Dissertation 3
.State of the Art and Principles of Embryo Development Models 1
.	A Review of Theoretical Models of Development 1
.		Early Attempts 1
.		Reaction-Diffusion Systems 1
.		Morphogen Gradients and Positional Information 1
.		Epithelial Cell Shaping and Division Patterns 1
.		Differential Adhesion and Cell Sorting 1
.	Common Modeling Principles: Toward an Integrated Theory of Development 1
.		Dealing with Multiple Levels of Organization 1
.		Relating One Level to the Next: The Problem of Emergence 1
.		Identifying Custom Laws at Each Level 1
.		Summary Table 1
.	Overview of the MECAGEN Modeling Principles 3
.MECAGEN Model of Cell Biomechanics 1
.	State of the Art in Biomechanical Modeling 1
.		The Many Viewpoints on "Soft Matter": From Continuous-Space to Discrete-Element Models 4
.		Particle-Based Physics 1
.	Hypotheses 1
.		Generic Cell-Centered Equation of Motion 1
.		Cell Neighborhood 4
.		Interaction Potential 1
.		Cell Specific Behavioral Forces 1
.MECAGEN Model of Molecular and Genetic Regulation and Signaling 1
.	Intra-Cellular Gene/Protein Reactions 1
.		Protein-Protein Interactions 1
.		Synthesis by Encoding Genes 1
.		Degradation by the Molecular Environment 1
.		Cis-Regulatory Boolean Model of Gene Expression 1
.	Signal Secretion and Transduction Modules 1
.		Signal Secretion Module 1
.		Signal Transduction Module 1
.	Extra-Cellular Reactions, Transport and Diffusion 1
.	Illustration on Artificial GRN Motifs 4
.MECAGEN Model of Mechanic-Genetic Coupling 1
.	Toward a Cell Behavior Ontology 1
.		Cell Behavior Ontology 1
.		Mechanotransduction Input of the GRN 1
.		Cell Adhesion 1
.		Cell Polarization 1
.	Waddingtonian Timeline Specification 1
.		Cell Types 1
.		Ligand Sinks and Sources 1
.		Passive Force's Adhesion Modulation 1
.		Active Cell Behavior Specification 1
.	Illustration on Artificial Cell Sorting 1
.		Cell Sorting: Revisiting a Classical Problem 4
.		Individual Cell Migration 4
.Review of the Zebrafish Early Developmental Mechanics 1
.	Cleavage Stages, Formation of the EVL and YSL 1
.		The Formation of the Enveloping Cell Layer 1
.		The Formation of the Yolk Syncitial Layer 1
.	Blastula Stages and the Onset of Epiboly 1
.	Gastrulation Movements 1
.		Epiboly Phase Two 4
.		Hypoblast Formation 4
.		Convergence-Extension 1
.Experimental Reconstruction of the Zebrafish Early Development 1
.	Bioemergences Reconstruction Workflow 1
.		Embryo Preparation and Acquisition 1
.		Cell Lineage Reconstruction Workflow 4
.		Post Processing and Exploitation 4
.	Reconstructing In Toto Deformation Fields 1
.		Manual Registration 1
.		Voxel Quality Evaluation 1
.		Blending Function 1
.		Deformation Fields 1
.		Blended Deformation Fields 1
.Simulated Reconstruction and Model Validation Through Case Studies 1
.	Investigating the Yolk Biomechanical Properties 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 1
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 4
.		Discussion 1
.	Cell Proliferation Rate Along the Cell Lineage 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 1
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 4
.		Discussion 1
.	Shaping the Zebrafish Blastula 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 4
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 4
.		Discussion 1
.	Cell Behaviors in the Enveloping Cell Layer Compartment 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 1
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 4
.		Discussion 1
.	Intercalation Patterns 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 4
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 4
.		Discussion 1
.	Gastrulation 1
.		Hypotheses and Model 1
.		Simulation, Parameter Space and Validation 1
.		Discussion 1
.Conclusion 1
.	Criteria for a "Good" Model 1
.		Similarities between Variables and Concepts 1
.		Computational Feasibility 1
.	Choices Concerning the Biomechanics 1
.		Spatial Neighborhood 1
.		Interaction Potential and Behavioral Forces 1
.		External Objects 1
.		Single-Cell vs. Subcellular Mechanics 1
.		Spherical-Voronoi Approximation 1
.	Choices Concerning the Molecular/Genetic Regulation and Signaling 1
.	Assessment of the Case Studies 1
.	Future Work 1
.		Portability to Other Animal Models 1
.		Interactive Exploration of Parameter Space 1
.		Toward an "Evo-Devo" Perspective 1
